We live in a fast-paced world, which demands
our attention and can easily wear us out.
There are many ways to reduce the stress that
daily life brings, and one of the best ways
is to own a pet.
A pet constantly gives love and gratitude,
they can provide entertainment, and they’re
happy just being in your presence.
With so many different types of pets to choose
from - whether its fish, birds, rabbits, or
gerbils - the decision could be overwhelming,
but today we’re going to focus on the two
most beloved domesticated animals on the planet,
in this episode of the The Infographics Show:
Dogs vs Cats.
According to a 2013 Live Science report, freshwater
fish are the most common pet with 142 million
freshwater fish owned as pets around the world.
Cats come in second at 88.3 million, and dogs
close behind at 74.8 million.
But let’s face it; if your reason for wanting
a pet is fun and companionship, then you’re
likely looking for either a cat or dog.
Which you chose will come down to your personality,
the time you have to dedicate to your new
friend, and the space you have to house your
pet.
Cats are more independent and generally less
demanding, whereas dogs are loyal and obedient
but require more attention and exercise, including
regular walks.
Dogs live between 12 to 18 years and cats
can live as old as 25.
That’s 25 human years, but in cat years
that’s the grand old age of 116!
Looking back in time at these canine and feline
rivals, British newspaper, The Independent,
published information from a groundbreaking
study of 2,000 ancient fossils of dogs and
cats.
The study revealed that the cat family has
historically been much better at surviving
than the dog clan, and often at the latter’s
expense.
The study showed that cats have played a major
role in making 40 dog species extinct, outcompeting
them for scarce food supplies because they
are generally more effective hunters.
And there was no evidence that dogs have wiped
out a single cat species.
That’s sure to anger you dog lovers, but
that was long in the past and nearly all of
todays dogs and cats are domesticated, which
is why we love to spend time with them.
So if you’re in the market for a pet, how
do you choose between a feline friend or canine
companion?
Let’s see if we can help.
First, it’s good to consider how much time
you can dedicate to your pet.
Dogs require more time than cats, and they
don’t like to be left home alone.
Both come with different price tags.
Dogs are more expensive than cats, but there’s
always the option of visiting the pound and
taking on a rescue animal.
Some cats live their life indoors and require
a litter tray, whereas others will stay out,
only coming in for food.
When choosing a dog, consider its size.
Larger dogs, like German Shepherds or Labradors,
need more space and cost more to feed.
And when it comes to mood, dogs are more needy
and affectionate.
Cats on the other hand are more independent,
though it varies by breed.
For example, Siamese cats are intelligent
and playful, but can be noisy, while longhaired
cats are laid back and shorthaired cats are
generally affectionate.
And as individuals, both cats and dogs have
different personalities, so interact with
them before taking them home to see if you
can be buddies.
That might help you choose, but there’s
more to take in to account when your pet joins
you at home.
What about other considerations of day-to-day
life with your new dog or cat?
Feeding - Animals all need feeding and because
you’ll be feeding them, they’ll be your
BFF.
The amount a cat needs to eat varies depending
on its size, but cats require less food than
pretty much all dogs, unless you’re shopping
for one of those tiny little toy dogs, that
some folks carry around in their handbag.
Cat food comes in dry or canned wet form and
adult cats require between 250 and 300 calories
per day.
You can also feed your cat fish, such as canned
tuna, as a treat now and then, but if it makes
up a large part of their diet, they are at
risk of thiamine deficiency.
How much a dog eats depends on its size.
Commercial dog food comes in both dry and
wet forms, and most dogs need between 25 and
30 calories per pound per day.
Dogs of course love bones but don’t give
your dog cooked bones because cooked bones
may splinter and injure their intestines.
And another danger food for dogs is chocolate.
For humans, it’s a pleasurable treat but
it can poison a dog.
Grooming - Cats famously do not like water,
but luckily they do not need bathing, though
they should be brushed regularly, especially
if they have long hair.
Most cats enjoy the activity as it relieves
any itchiness, particularly during the hot
months.
As for dogs, they need grooming and bathing
regularly, especially those with long hair.
In the summer, dogs will shed and lose their
coat, so grooming aids this process, and if
you don’t take the time to clean your dog,
he or she will soon start to stink up your
entire house.
Health & Hygiene - Both cats and dogs can
get infected with ticks, lice, fleas and other
parasites.
When this happens, disinfectants like Frontline
or Advantix are required to clear the pet
of infection, though Advantix is used only
on dogs because it is very dangerous for cats.
Frequent grooming and bathing will help to
avoid these outbreaks, as will visiting the
vet regularly, to ensure the pets injections
are up to date and other health checkups are
carried out.
House Training - Cats can easily be trained
to use their litter-box.
This requires cleaning once a day.
But other than that, they tend to keep themselves
to themselves.
A dog on the other hand, needs to be trained,
socialized, and housebroken.
Training usually takes around 2 months and
according to The Dog Whisperer, Cesar Milan,
the 5 essential commands your dog must learn
are sit, come, down, stay, and leave it.
At the end og the day, dogs are for some people
and cats for others.
If you spend a lot of time away from home,
then maybe a cat is best, but if you have
a big house and yard and like a pet to stand
guard, then you’re probably more suited
to own a dog.
So, what’s your pet of choice and why?
Let us know in the comments.
Also, be sure to check out our other video
called Gorilla vs Bear - Who Would Win?!
Thanks for watching, and, as always, don’t
forget to like, share, and subscribe.
See you next time!